# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2024-10-21

Recording: https://youtu.be/zKAZvNv55to

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Marco Deicas | mdeicas@google.com | Google | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari |he/him
| Mihai Maruseac | mihaimaruseac@google.com | Google | he/him

Regrets:
* Jeff is out at SOSS fusion
* Mike has a conflict

## Agenda

* A few issues to look at 
    * OCI collector
    * Filtering based on HasSBOM queries ([#2205](https://github.com/guacsec/guac/pull/2205))
    * Deps.dev decision on just adding scorecard and hasSrcAt info
