# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2024-12-09

Recording: https://youtu.be/xsrYalTUoY8

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Marco Deicas | mdeicas@google.com | Google | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari |he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him

## Agenda

* [Ben] Are the ladder climbs from the [25 November meeting](maintainers-2024-11-25.md) official or just suggestions? What do we need to do to close them out?
    * They’re official, but we need people to say they accept
        * Robbie: yes
        * Nathan: (no reply)
        * Ben: yes :-)
    * Brandon will send a PR for this for all that have accepted at end of week.
* [Ben] I’m going to work on a GUAC verifier for Supply Chain Firewall. What sorts of things would we want it to block on:
    * Vulns from OSV, etc
    * CertifyBad
    * (probably for future versions) user-specified licenses
* [Parth] GUAC release (probably need a minor version increment)
* [Parth] V1.0 remainder tasks?
    * Deprecate collectsub
    * Remove unfunctional backends
    * Follow up with 1.0 discussion
* V2.0 discussions
