# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2024-11-18

Recording: https://youtu.be/lPw1c-2xqTM

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Marco Deicas | mdeicas@google.com | Google | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari |he/him
| Mihai Maruseac | mihaimaruseac@google.com | Google | he/him

## Agenda

* [Ben] Community Meeting on Thursday: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ImSlr_t3WNZ3zWqpmfqkw1mi6_nkv3enkQ7snWDomKA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.1y1fd2sjbmbo
    * Last call to object to canceling office hours
* Kubecon
    * All 3 keynotes gave a shoutout to GUAC
        * VMWare/Broadcom
            * Think mike had a chat with them
        * Microsoft
        * Santiago/Justin Cappos
    * GUAC AI talk went well, a lot of interest in getting it working
        * Folks interested
            * People trying to secure AI
            * People in security engineering organization
            * People in security lead / role
            * People in ada logic are looking to work on generating provenance properly
                * They are looking into collaborating  on generating provenance completely on training path
                * On collab as a platform (training/juniper notebook type flows)
    * Aquasecurity wanted to integrate with VEX hub (Teppei Fukuda) (https://github.com/guacsec/guac/issues/2296) 
    * Defense Unicorns wanted to think about GUAC airgapped (https://github.com/guacsec/guac/issues/2294) 
    * People asked about runtime
        * Mainly around kubernetes and containers
        * Explore kubescape and openclairty
