# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2025-08-04

Recording: https://youtu.be/EA_DgrukEYc

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him

## Agenda/notes

* [Ben] Open questions from OSPS Baseline assessment: https://github.com/guacsec/guac/issues/2526#issuecomment-3114208475
    * By EOW, weigh in on incomplete ones and say if worth doing or not
        * If you have feedback on controls, send it to Ben or come to sig-security-baseline in ossf slack or bw meeting at 10am EST tmr.
* [Dejan] Trustify donation status
    * Not heard back from LF yet, they are checking on an issue that trustify is a registered trademark in the UK, want to see if its a problem in the future. 
    * Maybe may have to rename possibly - not sure yet.
* [Dejan] Meeting times
    * Propose new time in slack for starting in sep
* [Brandon] Discussion on steering committee process
    * Voting may be more complicated
    * Each core project has at least one member
    * 3 members + 1 from each core project
    * N-1 committee members vote to change.
        * If dispute, goes to OpenSSF
    * Proposals have to be open for at least a week.
    * For SLSA, majority votes, with aggressive removal for inactivity
    * At least 2 different employers
* [Dejan] Dependency analytics feedback
    * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1cBcqLROOsI 
* [Mike] Mole demo
