# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2025-03-24

Recording: https://youtu.be/hMA-33o8CxQ

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Mihai Maruseac | mihaimaruseac@google.com | Google | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Santiago Torres-Arias | santiagotorres@purdue.edu | Purdue | he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him

## Agenda

* [Ben] Ladder/ACL requests
    * Add Ben to Reviewer on guac-visualizer: https://github.com/guacsec/governance/issues/57
    * Give Ben triage access on guac: https://github.com/guacsec/governance/issues/58
    * Brandon to handle changes
* [Jeff] https://github.com/guacsec/guac/releases/tag/v0.14.0 made on Fri
    * Will publish https://github.com/guacsec/guac-landing/pull/133/files today
* General discussion on 1.0 plan
    * We're nearly ready
    * Ben will draft messaging in next ~2 weeks