# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2025-04-21

Recording: https://youtu.be/NvqjhOo1FcA

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Marco Deicas | mdeicas@google.com | Google | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him
| Santiago Torres-Arias | santiagotorres@purdue.edu | Purdue | he/him

## Agenda/notes

* [Proposed GUAC Community next steps](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ECugArG7MT4baRHE6KrvdRoTCx99kNedGvyOJEDpYA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.jt7wryu8027o)
* [GUAC 1.0 Messaging](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14S2PUaxjTISwW1iAD1BMC_Q1YfGp76895QHDFpe1W1c/edit?tab=t.0)
    * Target a month from now for 1.0 release
