# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2025-04-28

Recording: https://youtu.be/u7gskZZC3iA

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Brandon Lum | lumb@google.com | Google | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Mihai Maruseac | mihaimaruseac@google.com | Google | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him

## Agenda/notes

* 1.0 release
    * Outstanding tasks
        * Docs updates to indicate whatâ€™s supported vs experimental
        * Move helm charts to guacsec
            * And also add postgres to it
* [Mike] - Mole demo
* [Community merge next steps](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18ECugArG7MT4baRHE6KrvdRoTCx99kNedGvyOJEDpYA/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.jt7wryu8027o)
    * Feedback from SCI meeting:
        * We should add some content about what GUAC and Trustification are to give people more context
        * Otherwise, people were generally onboard
