# GUAC Maintainers Meeting: 2025-05-05

Recording: https://youtu.be/oDIPSqPTln8

## Attendees

| Name | Email | Affiliation | Pronouns
| ---- | ----- | ----------- | --------
| Ben Cotton | ben@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Marco Deicas | mdeicas@google.com | Google | he/him
| Parth Patel | parth@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Michael Lieberman | mike@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Mihai Maruseac | mihaimaruseac@google.com | Google | he/him
| Jeff Mendoza | jeff@kusari.dev | Kusari | he/him
| Dejan Bosanac | dbosanac@redhat.com | Red Hat | he/him

## Agenda/notes

* Community Merger
    * Doc is ready
    * Agreed we don’t need to circulate this further until legal folks sign off
        * The process for that is to email Adrianne. Ben to do this (and cc Dejan)
* GUAC 1.0
    * Is moving the helm chart into the guacsec org a release blocker?
        * Consensus is yes
        * We can move it first then add the postgres support
        * Probably as a distinct repo with docs in the release process to also release the helm charts
        * Ben to do some homework about the “typical” way projects release helm charts
